# private-grid
One major topical issue that has generated a lot of controversy in recent years is private data aggregation in Smart Grids. Smart metering of utility consumption is rapidly ecoming a reality for multitudes of people and households. It promises real-time measuremennt of power demand which is expected to result in lower overall energy use and better load balancing. On the other hand, finely granular measurements reported by smart meters can lead to starkly increased exposure of sensitive information, thus providing insight int oall kinds of personal attributes and activities. Reconciling smart metring's benefits with privacy concerns has become a major challenge.

A typical smart grid is made up three key entities: the households, utility providers and aggregators. In order to compute the power required for given geographical areas, houses send power consumptions to an aggregator at regular intervals. The aggregator computes aggregates from these values and forwards them to the grid opeerator. This helps to predict the power requirements for each geographical area in real time.

Even if this is done over secure chanels, the problem is that in order to compute these aggregates, each household sends in their private power readings at regular time intervals (typically 15 minutes). This data if accummulated over time could be used to provide insight into living patterns of a home. When they go to sleep, how many people are in the house, when they are not at home, etc. Basically smart grid consumers have to trust that utility providers will only use this data for the intended purposes. However this could led to sever privacy violations if sold to third parties. More  so if this data ever got in the hands of ciminals, it creates a huge security problem. It could be used to strategize an attack when a particular person is present at the home or no one is present at the home.

The solution provided here uses homomorphic encryption to compute the aggregates need by utility providers privately, thereby protecting the interests of the consumer. Paillier homomorphic encryption is used with Chinese Remainder theorem to get the aggregates of each geographic area whiles a Diffie-Hellman key exchange between each pair of houses is used to mask private the individual inputs of the houses.
